Add article with visual studio props (#690)
dotnet/docs-maui: docs/deployment/visual-studio-properties.md

---
title: "Project property settings in Visual Studio"
description: "Describes the Visual Studio project properties available to a .NET MAUI app. The properties and settings are related to building the app, configuring debug options, and other settings related to building the application for Windows, Android, and iOS."
ms.date: 07/11/2022
---

# Project configuration in .NET MAUI

> .NET MAUI uses a [single-project system](../fundamentals/single-project.md) to manage most of your multi-platform app. This is different from .NET MAUI's predecessor, Xamarin, which used multiple projects, one for each platform. Project configuration in .NET MAUI is similar to other projects in Visual Studio, right-click on the project in the **Solution Explorer**, and select **Properties**.

Reviewer: most of?

Author: ```suggestion
.NET MAUI uses a [single-project system](../fundamentals/single-project.md) to manage your multi-platform app. Project configuration in .NET MAUI is similar to other projects in Visual Studio, right-click on the project in the **Solution Explorer**, and select **Properties**.
```

> .NET MAUI uses a [single-project system](../fundamentals/single-project.md) to manage most of your multi-platform app. This is different from .NET MAUI's predecessor, Xamarin, which used multiple projects, one for each platform. Project configuration in .NET MAUI is similar to other projects in Visual Studio, right-click on the project in the **Solution Explorer**, and select **Properties**.

Reviewer: most of?

> .NET MAUI uses a [single-project system](../fundamentals/single-project.md) to manage most of your multi-platform app. This is different from .NET MAUI's predecessor, Xamarin, which used multiple projects, one for each platform. Project configuration in .NET MAUI is similar to other projects in Visual Studio, right-click on the project in the **Solution Explorer**, and select **Properties**.

Reviewer: Is the sentence about Xamarin adding anything useful? Xamarin users will know that. .NET MAUI users don't need to know that?

## Application

The **Application** section describes some settings related to which platforms your app targets, as well as the output file and default namespace.

- **General**

  Describes some basic settings about your app.

  | Setting | Default value | Description |
  | - | - | - |
  | Assembly name | `$(MSBuildProjectName)` | Specifies the name of the output file that will hold the assembly manifest. |
  | Default namespace | Varies. | Specifies the base namespace for files added to your project. This generally defaults to the name of your project or a value you specified when you created the project. |

- **iOS Targets**

  If you're going to target iOS and macOS (using Mac Catalyst), these settings describe the target iOS version.

  | Setting | Default value | Description |
  | - | - | - |
  | Target the iOS platform | Checked | Specifies that this project will target the iOS platform. |
  | Target iOS Framework | `net6.0-ios` | The [Target Framework Moniker][tfm] used to target iOS.

>   | Minimum Target iOS Framework | `14.2` | The minimum version of iOS your app targets.

Reviewer: No action needed here but I'm already sighing at the thought of having to keep these default values updated, as they change over time.

  | Setting | Default value | Description |
  | - | - | - |
  | Target the Android platform | Checked | When checked, the .NET MAUI project will target and build an Android version of your app. Uncheck to disable the Android target. |
  | Target Android Framework | `net6.0-android` | The [Target Framework Moniker][tfm] used to target Android.
  | Minimum Target Android Framework | `21.0` | The minimum version of Android your app targets.

- **Windows Targets**

  If you're going to target Windows, these settings describe the target Windows version.

  | Setting | Default value | Description |
  | - | - | - |
  | Target the Windows platform | Checked | When checked, the .NET MAUI project will target and build a Windows version of your app. Uncheck to disable the Windows target. |
  | Target Windows Framework | `net6.0-windows10.0.19041.0` | The [Target Framework Moniker][tfm] used to target Windows.
  | Minimum Target Windows Framework | `10.0.17763.0` | The minimum version of Windows your app targets.

## Build

The **Build** section describes settings related to compiling your app.

### General

Settings related to target platforms.

- **Conditional compilation symbols**

>   Specifies symbols on which to perform conditional compilation. Separate symbols with a semicolon `;`. Symbols can be broken up into target platforms

Reviewer: Any doc to link for more info?

Author: ```suggestion
  Specifies symbols on which to perform conditional compilation. Separate symbols with a semicolon `;`. Symbols can be broken up into target platforms. For more information, see [Conditional compilation](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/preprocessor-directives#conditional-compilation).
```

  | `ARM32` | Compiles your assembly to run on a computer that has an Advanced RISC Machine (ARM) processor. |
  | `ARM64` | Compiles your assembly to run by the 64-bit runtime on a computer that has an Advanced RISC Machine (ARM) processor that supports the A64 instruction set. |

- **Nullable**

  Specifies the project-wide C# nullable context. For more information, see [Nullable References](/dotnet/csharp/nullable-references#nullable-contexts).

  | Option        | Description |
  | ------------- | ----------- |
  | Unset         | (Default) If this setting isn't set, the default is `Disable`. |
  | `Disable`     | Nullable warnings are disabled. All reference type variables are nullable reference types. |
  | `Enable`      | The compiler enables all null reference analysis and all language features. |
  | `Warnings`    | The compiler performs all null analysis and emits warnings when code might dereference null. |
  | `Annotations` | The compiler doesn't perform null analysis or emit warnings when code might dereference null. |

- **Implicit global usings**

>   Enables implicit global usings to be declared by the project SDK. This is enabled by default. Imports many of the .NET MAUI namespaces automatically to all code files.

Reviewer: Wondering if this should be reworded to something to clarify users won't see `using` statements added to their code files?

>   Enables implicit global usings to be declared by the project SDK. This is enabled by default. Imports many of the .NET MAUI namespaces automatically to all code files.

Author: ```suggestion
  Enables implicit global usings to be declared by the project SDK. This is enabled by default. Imports many of the .NET MAUI namespaces automatically to all code files. Code files don't need to add `using` statements for common .NET MAUI namespaces. For more information, see [MSBuild properties - ImplicitUsings](/dotnet/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props#implicitusings).
```

>   Enables implicit global usings to be declared by the project SDK. This is enabled by default. Imports many of the .NET MAUI namespaces automatically to all code files. Code files don't need to add `using` statements for common .NET MAUI namespaces. For more information, see [MSBuild properties - ImplicitUsings](/dotnet/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props#implicitusings).

Author: ```suggestion
  Enables implicit global usings to be declared by the project SDK. This is enabled by default and imports many of the .NET MAUI namespaces automatically to all code files. Code files don't need to add `using` statements for common .NET MAUI namespaces. For more information, see [MSBuild properties - ImplicitUsings](/dotnet/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props#implicitusings).
```

- **Unsafe code**

  Allow code that uses the `unsafe` keyword to compile. This is disabled by default.

- **Optimize code**

  Enable compiler optimizations for smaller, faster, and more efficient output. There is an option for each target platform, in Debug or Release mode. Generally, this is enabled for Release mode, as the code is optimized for speed at the expense of helpful debugging information.

- **Debug symbols**

  Specifies the kind of debug symbols produced during build.

### Errors and warnings

Settings related to how errors and warnings are treated and reported during compilation.

- **Warning level**

  Specifies the level to display for compiler warnings.

- **Suppress specific warnings**

  Blocks the compiler from generating the specified warnings. Separate multiple warning numbers with a comma `,` or a semicolon `;`.

- **Treat warnings as errors**

  When enabled, instructs the compiler to treat warnings as errors. This is disabled by default.

- **Treat specific warnings as errors**

  Specifies which warnings are treated as errors. Separate multiple warning numbers with a comma `,` or a semicolon `;`.

> ## Output

Author: ```suggestion
### Output
```

- **When to run the post-build event**

  Specifies under which condition the post-build even will be run.

### Strong naming

Settings related to signing the assembly.

- **Sign the assembly**

  When enabled, signs the output assembly to give it a strong name.

### Advanced

Additional settings related to the build.

- **Language version**

  The version of the language available to the code in the project. Defaults to `10.0`.

- **Check for arithmetic overflow**

  Throw exceptions when integer arithmetic produces out of range values. This setting is available for each platform. The default is disabled for each platform.

- **Deterministic**

  Produce identical compilation output for identical inputs. This setting is available for each platform. The default is enabled for each platform.

- **Internal compiler error reporting**

  Send internal compiler error reports to Microsoft. Defaults to `Prompt before sending`.

- **File alignment**

  Specifies, in bytes, where to align the sections of the output file. This setting is available for each platform. The default is `512` for each platform.

## Package

> The **Package** section describes settings related to generating a NuGet package.

Reviewer: Is there a link to a VS doc or should General below be a H3?

> ## General

Author: ```suggestion
### General
```

> Settings related the NuGet package.

Reviewer: related to?

Author: ```suggestion
Settings related to generating a NuGet package.
```

- **Generate NuGet package on build**

  When enabled, produces a NuGet package file during build operations. This is disabled by default.

- **Package ID**

>   The case-insensitive package identifier, which must be unique across nuget.org or whatever gallery the package resides in. IDs may not contain spaces or characters that aren't valid for a URL, and generally follow .NET namespace rules.

Reviewer: "or whatever gallery" > "or the gallery"?

Author: ```suggestion
  The case-insensitive package identifier, which must be unique across the NuGet package gallery, such as nuget.org. IDs may not contain spaces or characters that aren't valid for a URL, and generally follow .NET namespace rules.
```

Settings related to code analysis.

### All analyzers

Settings related to when analysis runs.

- **Run on build**

  When enabled, runs code analysis on build. Defaults to enabled.

- **Run on live analysis**

  When enabled, runs code analysis live in the editor as you type. Defaults to enabled.

### .NET analysis

Settings related to .NET analyzers.

- **Enforce code style on build (experimental)**

  When enabled, produces diagnostics about code style on build. This is disabled by default.

- **Enable .NET analyzers**

  When enabled, runs .NET analyzers to help with API usage. Defaults to enabled.

- **Analysis level**

  The set of analyzers that should be run in the project. Defaults to `Latest`. For more information, see [MSBuild: AnalysisLevel](/dotnet/core/project-sdk/msbuild-props#analysislevel).

## MAUI Shared

These are project settings for .NET MAUI that are shared across all target platforms.

### General

General settings related to .NET MAUI.

- **Application Title**

  The display name of the application.

- **Application ID**

  The identifier of the application in reverse domain name format, for example: `com.microsoft.maui`.

- **Application ID (GUID)**

>   The identifier of the application GUID format.

Reviewer: in GUID format?

Author: ```suggestion
  The identifier of the application in GUID format.
```

- **Application Display Version**

  The version of the application. This should be a single digit integer. Defaults to `1`.

## Android

These are Android-specific .NET MAUI settings.

### Manifest

Settings related to the Android manifest.

- **Application name**

>   The string that's displayed as the name of the application. This is the name that's shown in the app's title bar. If not set, the label of the app's MainActivity is used as the application name. The default setting is `@string/app_name` refers to the string resource `app_name` location in `Resources/values/Strings.xaml`.

Reviewer: The default setting is XXXX, which refers to the string resource YYYYY located in ZZZZZZ.?

Author: ```suggestion
  The string that's displayed as the name of the application. This is the name that's shown in the app's title bar. If not set, the label of the app's MainActivity is used as the application name. The default setting is `@string/app_name`, which refers to the string resource `app_name` location in `Resources/values/Strings.xaml`.
```

- **Application package name**

  A string that's used to uniquely identify the application. Typically, the package name is based on a reversed internet domain name convention, such as `com.company.appname`.

- **Application icon**

  Specifies the application icon resource that will be displayed for the app. The setting `@drawable/icon` refers to the image file `icon.png` located in the `Resources/mipmap` folder.

- **Application theme**

  Sets the UI style that's applied to the entire app. Every view in the app applies to the style attributes that are defined in the selected theme.

- **Application version number**

  An integer value greater than zero that defines the version number of the app. Higher numbers indicate more recent versions. This value is evaluated programmatically by Android and by other apps, it isn't shown to users.

- **Application version name**

  A string that specifies the version of the app to users. The version name can be a raw string or a reference to a string resource.

- **Install location**

>   Indicates preference as to where the app should be stored, whether in internal or external storage. Internal-only:  Prefer external:

Reviewer: Indicates a preference?

Author: ```suggestion
  Indicates a preference as to where the app should be stored, whether in internal or external storage.
```

>   Indicates preference as to where the app should be stored, whether in internal or external storage. Internal-only:  Prefer external:

Reviewer: Looks like there's some stray text on the end of the line?

  | Option | Description |
  | -- | -- |
  | `Internal-only` | (Default) Specifies that the app can't be installed or moved to external storage. |
  | `Prefer external` | Specifies that the app should be installed in external storage, if possible. |
  | `Prefer internal` | Specifies that the app should be installed in internal storage, if possible. |

- **Minimum Android version**

  The oldest API level of an Android device that can install and run the app. Also referred to as `minSdkVersion`.

- **Target Android version**

  The target API level of the Android device where the app expects to run. This API level is used at run-time, unlike Target Framework, which is used at build time. Android uses this version as a way to provide forward compatibility. Also referred to as `targetSdkVersion`, this should match Target Framework `compileSdkVersion`.

### Options

Miscellaneous options for building an Android app.

- **Android package format**

>   Either `apk` or `bundle`, which packages the Android application as an APK file or Android App Bundle, respectively. This can be set for individually for both Debug and Release modes.

Reviewer: "This can be set individually for...."?

Author: ```suggestion
  Either `apk` or `bundle`, which packages the Android application as an APK file or Android App Bundle, respectively. This can be set individually for both Debug and Release modes.
```

  - `r8` is the next-generation tool which converts Java byte code to optimized dex code.

- **Uncompressed resources**

  Leaves the specified resource extensions uncompressed. Separate extensions with a semicolon `;`. For example: `.mp3;.dll;.png`.

- **Developer instrumentation**

  When enabled, developer instrumentation is provided for debugging and profiling. This can be set for individually for both Debug and Release modes.

  The default is enabled for Debug builds.

- **Debugger**

  Selects which debugger to use. The default is `.NET (Xamarin)`, which is used for managed code. The C++ debugger can be selected to debug native libraries used by the app.

- **AOT**

  Enables Ahead-of-Time (AOT) compilation. This can be set for individually for both Debug and Release modes.

  The default is enabled for Release builds.

- **LLVM**

  Enables the LLVM optimizing compiler. The default is disabled.

- **Startup Tracing**

  Enables startup tracing. This can be set for individually for both Debug and Release modes.

  The default is enabled for Release builds.

- **Garbage Collection**

  When enabled, uses the concurrent garbage collector. Defaults to enabled.

> - **Enable trimming**

Reviewer: Any links to trimming in the .NET docs?

>   When enabled, trims the application during publishing. This can be set for individually for both Debug and Release modes.

Author: ```suggestion
  When enabled, trims the application during publishing. This can be set for individually for both Debug and Release modes. For more information, see [Trim self-contained deployments and executables](/dotnet/core/deploying/trimming/trim-self-contained) and [Trim options](/dotnet/core/deploying/trimming/trimming-options).
```

  The default is enabled for Release builds.

- **Trimming granularity**

  Controls how aggressively IL is discarded. There are two modes to select from:

  - `Link` enables member-level trimming, which removes unused members from types.
  - `CopyUsed` (default) enableds assembly-level trimming, which keeps an entire assembly if any part of it is used.

- **Java max heap size**

  Set this value to increase the size of memory that an app can use. For example, a value of `2G` increases the heap size to 2 gigabytes. Note that there isn't a guarantee of how large the heap will be, and requesting too much heap memory may force other apps to terminate prematurely.

>   The default is `1G`/

Reviewer: Is that a stray slash?

Author: LOL I think I meant to hit `.`
```suggestion
  The default is `1G`.
```

  Options are:

  - `Don't link`
  - `Link Framework SDKs only` (default)
  - `Link All`

- **LLVM**

  When enabled, uses the LLVM optimized compiler. This can be set for individually for both Debug and Release modes.

  The default is enabled for Release builds.

- **Float operations**

  Performs all 32-bit float operations as 64-bit float operations.

- **Symbols**

  When enabled, strips native debugging symbols from the output. This is enabled by default.

- **Garbage collector**

  When enabled, uses the concurrent garbage collector. This is disabled by default.

- **Additional arguments**

  Additional command line arguments to be passed to the application bundling code.

- **Optimization**

  When enabled, optimizes _.PNG_ images. This is enabled by default.

### Bundle Signing

These settings are related to generating and signing the app bundle.

- **Scheme**

  Configures the signing scheme for the bundle. It can be set to one of the following values:

  - `Manual provisioning`: With this value, you'll be responsible for setting provisioning profiles and signing certificates yourself.

>   - `Automatic provisioning`: (default) With this value, Visual Studio will set provisioning profiles and signing certificates for you to simplify app testing on a device.

Reviewer: I think it would be better to say that automatic provisioning simplifies app deployment to a device (for testing).

Author: ```suggestion
  - `Automatic provisioning`: (default) With this value, Visual Studio will set provisioning profiles and signing certificates for you, which simplifies app deployment when testing on a device.
```

- **Signing identity**

  A signing identity is the certificate and private key pair that's used for code-signing app bundle using Apple's codesign utility.

  - `Developer (automatic)` (default)
  - `Distribution (automatic)`

- **Provisioning profile**

  Provisioning profiles are a way of tying together a team of developers with an App ID and, potentially, a list of test devices. The provisioning profiles list is filtered to only show provisioning profiles that match both the chosen identity and the App ID (aka bundle identifier) set in the _Info.plist_. If the provisioning profile that you're looking for isn't in the list, make sure that you've chosen a compatible identity and double-check that the bundle identifier set in your _Info.plist_ is correct.

> - **Custom Entitlements**

Reviewer: Link to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/maui/ios/deployment/entitlements?

It's not that great at the moment, but it will get expanded at some point.

>   The plist file to use for entitlements.

Author: ```suggestion
  The plist file to use for entitlements. For more information, see [Entitlements and capabilities](../ios/deployment/entitlements.md).
```

- **Custom Resource Rules**

  The plist file containing custom rules used by Apple's codesign utility.

  > [!NOTE]
  > As of Mac OSX 10.10, Apple has deprecated the use of custom resource rules. So, this setting should be avoided unless absolutely necessary.

- **Additional arguments**

  Additional command line arguments to be passed to Apple's codesign utility during the code-signing phase of the build.

### Debug

These are settings related to debugging.

- **Debugging**

>   When enabled, turns on debugging. The default is based on the current profile. Debug profiles enabled debugging, while Release disables debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When enabled, turns on debugging. The default is based on the current profile. Debug profiles enable debugging, while Release profiles disable debugging.
```
